Right now, tech giants in China are placing these massive, I mean, multi-billion dollar orders
for AI chips that are technically speaking at least two generations obsolete.
Right. Completely outdated by industry standards.
Exactly. They're buying hardware that, on paper, should be entirely uncompetitive.
Yet, the company making these older chips Huawei is seeing its AI processor revenues
absolutely skyrocket. Oh, the projections are wild. Yeah, we're talking a jump from 7.5 billion
dollars in 2025 to 12 billion dollars this year.
That is a 60% jump.
Which is just staggering.
Right.
I mean, welcome to today's deep dive.
We're so glad you could join us because in an industry where just, you know, securing
wafer allocation and getting silicon out the door is a total logistical nightmare.
Absolutely.
Capturing an actor four and a half billion dollars in a single year with older technology
is just, well, it's a glaring contradiction.
Yeah.
And what's fascinating here is that this completely upends the traditional Silicon
Valley narrative.
Well, we are wired to assume that the fastest, most power efficient processor, automatic
wins the market, right? Like best specs win. Sure. That's tech 101. Exactly. But the sources we are
looking at today reveal a completely different reality. This massive revenue surge. It's not
about making a faster chip. It's a masterclass in how a company leverages structural market forces
and navigates this unprecedented web of global regulations. They're essentially
rearchitecting their whole approach to AI just to play the hand they redoubt.
Precisely. They're playing the board, not just the cards.
Okay, let's unpack this hand they were dealt, because getting to $12 billion, that's not
just theoretical futures, right?
This is happening right now.
Yeah.
The reports indicate that Chinese tech groups are actively taking delivery of this specific
processor called the 950PR.
Right, the PR model.
And it just entered mass production in March, so it is fresh off the line and demand is
already way outstripping supply.
Plus they have an upgraded version, the 950DT, slated for the fourth quarter.
Yeah, the roadmap is aggressive.
But designing a chip architecture, that's really only half the battle.
Oh for sure.
Actually, manufacturing 7 nanometer or even older node silicon at this kind of blistering
scale, it requires massive physical infrastructure.
So for Huawei to scale up production by 60% in a heavily sanctioned environment, they
need serious manufacturing muscle inside China.
So how are they physically pulling this off?
They are leaning almost entirely on SMEC.
That's the Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation.
Okay, SMIC. Yeah, SEMMIC is China's leading
Dementic Fabrication Plan. And to handle this kind of volume, especially on older
lithography equipment, you basically had to throw brute force and just sheer
physical space at the problem. Because they don't have the newest machines.
Right, because they cannot access the most advanced extreme ultraviolet
lithography machines, the UV machines. So manufacturing these chips involves
these really complex multi-patterning processes. And that naturally leads to
lower yields per wafer. You just get fewer working chips out of every batch.
Ah, okay. So you're putting in the same amount of work but getting less usable product at the end?
Exactly. So to compensate for those lower yields and still hit that $12 billion revenue mark,
SecMIC is scaling up super aggressively. Later this year, two additional fabrication
plants are scheduled to launch and they are dedicated specifically to Huawei's AI chip needs.
Wow. So they are essentially building their way out of a yield problem.
Basically, if you can't get as many good chips out of a single silicon wafer
You just build entire new factories to process way more wafers just flood the zone with sheer volume
But wait that still leaves the fundamental performance gap the sources explicitly state that even the newest
950 PR lags Nvidia's advanced products by what two generations at least two generations
Yeah, and in the semiconductor world a two generation gap is a lifetime
I mean, it's like, okay, imagine you need to run a massive enterprise logistics company,
but you can only buy independent locally made delivery vans instead of the top of the line
freight trucks.
Right.
Your whole fleet is inherently slower.
Exactly.
So how do you capture a cutting edge AI market when your physical engines are just fundamentally
slower?
Because Market Access dictates the winner before specifications even factor into the
equation.
Okay, explain that.
going back to your analogy. If you cannot legally purchase the freight truck, its horsepower is
entirely irrelevant to your logistics business. You still have to move the freight so you buy
the local delivery vans, even if it means buying more of them and driving them a lot harder.
The technical capabilities of the hardware have become totally secondary to the geopolitical
reality of who is allowed to sell what to whom. And that geopolitical reality is really the
the only reason Huawei has this opening.
To understand the 950PR's dominance,
we have to look at what happened to the incumbent
because NVIDIA absolutely owned this space, right?
Oh, they dominated it.
In their fiscal year 2025,
they sold $17.1 billion worth of chips in China.
$17.1 billion?
Yes, but here's the catch.
That wasn't their flagship hardware.
NVIDIA had to engineer this highly specific
watered-down chip called the H20.
Right, the H20.
They poured millions into designing a processor that deliberately throttled its own interconnect
speeds in its compute performance just to stay a hair below the thresholds that would
trigger U.S. export controls.
That is wild to think about.
They engineered a product solely to fit through a regulatory loophole.
Exactly.
The H-20 was Nvidia's lifeline to the Chinese market.
It allowed them to comply with Washington's rules while still providing Chinese tech
firms with the familiar Nvidia software ecosystem, even if it was on slightly degraded hardware.
But then Washington closed the loophole, a year ago the US government outright banned
the sale of the H20 to China, the legal threshold moved, and suddenly Nvidia's $17 billion revenue
stream was just cut off.
So since then, Nvidia has been desperately trying to navigate a path back in.
Which brings us to their newest hardware, the H200.
And back in March, Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang announced that the company had finally secured
U.S. export licenses to sell the new H-200 chips to Chinese clients.
Right. And on paper, it looked like the freeze was over.
Yeah, everyone thought, okay, they're back in business.
It appeared that way to the market, but the actual logistics on the ground tell a completely
different story. The sources highlight this staggering detail. Despite Nvidia holding
those U.S. licenses since March, exactly zero shipments of the H-200 have been made to China.
Wait, zero? Not a single chip?
Not a single chip has cranked the border.
Because holding a U.S. license only satisfies one half of the equation.
Exactly.
We are looking at this bizarre regulatory riddle where two competing governments
have issued mandates that basically physically freeze the supply chain.
It's a complete stalemate. On one side you have U.S. regulators
requiring that any invidia chips ordered by Chinese clients
must only be deployed and used inside China. The hardware cannot leave the country.
Right, to prevent it from going to third parties I assume.
Exactly. But meanwhile, Beijing has issued its own strict directives. They told Chinese tech
companies to buy domestic hardware, like Huawei, for all internal domestic data centers.
Okay.
And they actively restricted any use of Nvidia chips to only their overseas operations.
Wait, so the conditions are mutually exclusive?
Completely. The US demands the chips stay inside China,
and Beijing demands the chips only be used outside of China.
Oh my god, it's like two divorced parents dictating roles for a teenager with a family car.
Mom says you are only allowed to drive the car on the highway.
Dad says you're only allowed to drive the car in the driveway.
That's the perfect analogy.
The result isn't a compromise.
The result is the car literally sits parked with the engine off.
There's literally no customs clearance for the H-200.
None. You have willing buyers.
You have willing sellers.
You have the inventory sitting there,
but the product cannot legally exist in any physical location.
That is just mind-bending. And so this stalemate forces the hands of the Chinese tech giants.
They have no choice. I mean, they have these aggressive roadmaps for deploying large language
models, right? They cannot sit around waiting for Washington and Beijing to resolve a geopolitical
standoff. Right. The compute demand is immediate. Exactly. So this gridlock is exactly what hands
Huawei a captive multi-billion dollar market. But having a captive market doesn't automatically
mean your product works for the end user. I mean, if I'm a Chinese tech giant building
the next massive AI agent, I still have to deliver a product that processes user prompts instantly.
You still have a business to run. Yeah, I can't apologize to my users for
high latency just because I was forced by regulators to buy older Silicon.
Huawei still has to take hardware that is two generations behind
and somehow make it viable for state-of-the-art AI.
And that requires a massive shift in how the hardware is actually utilized.
See, Huawei recognized pretty quickly they could not win a head-to-head race on raw computing power,
so they changed the race. They executed this really brilliant strategic technical pivot.
Rather than trying to match Nvidia in the brutally compute heavy phase of AI model training,
Huawei positioned the 950PR architecture specifically for inference.
Okay, let's define those terms for the lesson because it's a crucial distinction.
And anyone building models knows that training is like studying for a massive final exam.
You're reading all the books, making millions of connections.
It requires moving massive matrices, constantly updating billions of parameters across thousands
of GPUs.
Right.
It requires insane compute density.
That's a lawless memory bandwidth.
But inference, that's actually taking the test.
That's the forward pass, where the model is simply generating a response, like when
you type a prompt into an LLN.
Exactly.
And inference is a totally different beast.
is highly memory bandwidth constrained, sure,
but it requires significantly fewer raw compute cycles
per operation than the training phase.
So Huawei is placing a huge bet here.
A massive debt on the long-term economics of AI.
Think about it.
Training a trillion parameter model
is this massive episodic capital expenditure.
It happens periodically.
Right, you do it once every few months or whatever.
Exactly, but inference.
Inference happens every single time a user queries an AI
assistant or asks a car to navigate or has a customer
service bot rewrite an email.
Oh, wow.
So as AI agents scale globally, the sheer volume of daily
inference requests will just absolutely
dwarf the compute cycles spent on training.
By orders of magnitude.
By tailoring the 950 PR for inference workloads,
Huawei is positioning itself at the largest choke point
of future AI demand.
Okay, but optimizing for inference doesn't magically erase a two-generation hardware lag.
Inference still requires shuffling massive amounts of data across the chip incredibly fast to generate those tokens without a delay.
So if an individual 950PR is still slower than an Nvidia counterpart, how are they keeping the end user experience from feeling totally sluggish?
This is where it gets really clever. They mitigate the individual chip weakness by leveraging their historical core competency.
You have to remember, before Huawei was an AI chip manufacturer, they were one of the
world's largest telecommunications companies.
Oh, right.
Telecom.
Their foundational expertise is in networking.
So they take these 950PR processors and wire them together using highly advanced proprietary
interconnects.
They build these massive computing clusters where the latency between the chips is minimized.
So it's like realizing your single-star player isn't as fast as the opponent, so you
You build a highly coordinated team of slightly slower players who pass the ball perfectly.
That's exactly it.
The network essentially becomes the computer.
If your single processor can't handle the parameter weights fast enough, you distribute
the load across a highly coordinated cluster.
It's all about how efficiently they can pass data east to west inside the data center,
totally bypassing the bottleneck of the individual silicon.
And we actually have real-world proof that this is working, right?
We do.
The sources provide concrete proof that this distributed architecture is functioning at
the absolute frontier of AI development.
DeepSeq, which has shocked the industry recently with its highly efficient models, they utilized
Huawei's 950PR for their latest DeepSeq V4 architecture.
And DeepSeq is the perfect test case for this, because they are notoriously obsessed
with driving down compute costs.
They really are.
And according to the reports, by deploying Huawei's clustered chips, Deepseq achieved
improved inference efficiency, and they noticeably reduced their operating costs compared to foreign
hardware alternatives.
Wow.
Yeah.
Huawei proved their networking architecture could genuinely compensate for older lithography
at scale.
But, and this is a big, but let's look at the critical nuance buried in that Deepseq
report.
Deepseq deployed the 950PR specifically for inference.
Right.
But the sources explicitly state that the vast majority of the computationally punishing
work, the actual training of the V4 model was still executed on NVIDIA's chips.
Huawei's networking clusters are impressive, but NVIDIA's raw compute dominance in the training phase
remains largely unbroken. It highlights a really fractured pipeline. We are seeing companies
train their foundational models on whatever advanced NVIDIA silicon they managed to hoard
before the expert controls tightened. Right, their stockpiles. Yeah, their stockpiles.
And then they deploy the finished model onto massive clusters of Huawei chips
for the daily inference workloads.
But hardware clustering only solves the physical bottleneck.
I mean, silicon is basically just expensive sand
without the software to run it.
Very true.
And here's where it gets really interesting.
Because NVIDIA's true moat, the reason developers
so aggressively defend using their chips,
isn't just the physical hardware, it's CUDA.
CUDA, yes.
NVIDIA's proprietary software platform.
It is arguably the most dominant ecosystem
in modern technology.
It's insane.
If we connect this to the bigger picture, CUDA is the invisible gravity holding NVIDIA's
entire monopoly together.
They have spent over 15 years building out these libraries, optimizing primitives, refining
the tools that developers use to compile code for their GPUs, and entire generations
of AI researchers have built their careers exclusively writing in CUDA.
It is deeply, deeply embedded in the academic and commercial foundation of artificial intelligence.
So to compete with Nvidia, you don't just have to manufacture a viable chip.
You have to convince a global workforce of developers to abandon a 15-year-old highly
optimized language and learn yours completely from scratch.
And that's Huawei's biggest bottleneck.
Because they're alternative, their software ecosystem, which is called CAN, it started
development a full decade after CUDA.
A decade late to the party.
Yeah.
And that decade-long head start translates into massive friction on the ground.
The sources are really clear that developers inside China frequently struggle with CAN.
I can imagine.
It just lacks that deep reservoir of pre-built libraries that CUDA offers.
When a developer encounters, say, a memory leak or a performance bottleneck, CUDA has
a massive community and sophisticated debugging tools to solve it almost instantly.
But with CAN?
With CAN, developers often have to write low-level kernels from scratch and spend weeks debugging
issues that would have taken literally hours on NVIDIA's platform.
Wow.
totally shifts the cost equation. Like the DeepSeap report mentioned reduced costs for inference,
but if you are an enterprise client adopting Huawei hardware, the savings you get on the physical
chips could easily be obliterated by the increased labor costs of your engineering team
to struggling to optimize code on CAN. The engineering overhead is severe. Now Huawei is
aggressively updating the software, pushing new releases constantly, but the developers themselves
report that the gap in usability and efficiency compared to CUDA is still a major barrier to
adoption. So they have hardware that's two generations behind and software that
developers find frustrating to use. Despite all of that, despite this massive
software friction and the inherent limitations of 7 nanometer hardware,
the financial forecasts for Huawei's trajectory are just staggering. We have a
detailed projection here from Morgan Stanley that completely reframes the
scale of this shift. Yeah, Morgan Stanley's analysis is fascinating
because it looks past the immediate technical bottlenecks and focuses on the
underlying macro trends. They estimate that the domestic AI chip market in China currently sits
at roughly $21 billion. Okay, $21 billion this year. But by 2030, they forecast that market will
expand to a massive $67 billion. That is huge. And the critical data point in their forecast
isn't just the size of the market, it's who owns it. Morden Stanley projects that by 2030,
86 percent of that 67 billion dollar market will be supplied by Chinese domestic players like
Huawei. 86 percent. I mean that essentially represents total market capture. It effectively
shuts out foreign silicon from the world's second largest economy. But how does an investment bank
look at an ecosystem severely hindered by older hardware and a highly fractured software platform
like CAN and confidently predict total dominance? Like how does that make sense? Because they view
the regulatory environment not as a passing storm but as the new permanent climate.
Oh interesting. Yeah the analysts explicitly noted that two structural forces are shaping this
reality. First is the exponential rise in demand for AI inference we discussed earlier. Right.
But second and more importantly are the persistent export controls. Morgan Stanley argues these
controls make localization a long duration feature of a market rather than just some
temporary policy response. A long duration feature. They're acknowledging that the geopolitical lines
have been drawn in permanent ink. Exactly. The export restrictions aren't going to just be lifted
in the year or two. Right. And when a multi-billion dollar market is permanently isolated from the
global supply chain, domestic companies have a guaranteed highly lucrative captive audience.
So that guaranteed revenue, like the 12 billion Huawei is pulling in just this year,
that funds the iterative research they need to eventually solve the software friction with
can and push their lithography forward.
You hit the nail on the head.
When survival requires localization, the domestic ecosystem will eventually adapt.
They will brute force the software optimizations because they literally have no other choice.
And this forced evolution is exactly what NVIDIA's leadership is monitoring with intense
concern.
Yeah, the sources include a really revealing quote from NVIDIA CEO Jensen Phuong.
This was during a recent interview with podcaster Duarkash Patel.
They were specifically discussing the possibility of a top tier lab like DeepSeq optimizing their
next massive frontier model to run natively on Huawei's architecture first rather than
treating it as a secondary port.
And Huang did not mince words.
He stated unequivocally, that is a horrible outcome for our nation.
Notice the phrasing there.
He didn't frame it as a threat to Nvidia's quarterly earnings.
He didn't say it's a problem for corporate market share.
No, not at all.
elevated it to a national security and technological sovereignty issue, a horrible outcome for our
nation.
Because he understands the endpoint of Morgan Stanley's structural forces.
If the world's second largest economy is forced to build a completely independent parallel
tech stack from the silicon layer up through the software primitives and right into the
frontier models, it breaks the unified global ecosystem.
Right.
Hong warned that this trajectory leads directly to a scenario where, and I'll quote him again,
AI models around the world are developed and they run best on non-American hardware.
Wow, so what does this all mean for you, the listener? We started this deep dive with a
contradiction, right? Billions of dollars flowing into two-generation old hardware.
Seemed crazy at first.
Totally. But as we've peeled back the layers, the logic of this tectonic shift becomes undeniably
We've seen how SUMIC is scaling physical infrastructure to basically outbuild their lithography limits.
We've navigated that absurd regulatory catch-22 that has physically frozen NVIDIA's H-200 shipments.
The driveway versus highway rule.
Exactly. And we've explored Huawei's brilliant strategic pivot away from raw compute training
and toward memory bandwidth-heavy inference, utilizing their telecom IP to build those massive networking clusters.
And finally, we've examined how the frictions of the CAN software platform are being slowly
eroded by the sheer financial force of a permanent $67 billion captive market.
The foundational takeaway here is that the physical layer of the global AI economy
is bifurcating.
The silicon and the code that will power autonomous agents, scientific research, global logistics,
they're splitting into two entirely distinct parallel ecosystems.
they're being shaped more by export controls than by pure technological merit.
Which leaves me with a final, slightly unsettling thought for you to consider.
Jensen Huang fears a future where the best models run natively on non-American hardware.
But let's take that a step further into the daily inference you will actually rely on.
If the underlying logic, the memory management, and the networking architecture
of AI models become fundamentally optimized for completely different hardware
and software ecosystems depending on where they are deployed,
Will the actual intelligence of these systems begin to diverge?
Oh, wow.
Could we be heading toward a fractured reality where
an AI assistance reasoning its efficiency and its capabilities
are fundamentally different simply because of the silicon
it was forced to run on?
It's a complex structural shift, and the implications
will touch every single layer of technology moving forward.
Thank you for joining us on this deep dive.
Keep questioning the physical realities
beneath the software you use every day,
and we'll see you next time.